<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="contrib">
  <title>Contributing to this document</title>

  <shortdesc>WARNING: Document design can be hazardous to your other
  interests. (Apologies to Knuth)</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>
      This is a DITA document.  The original is available from the
      <xref format="html"
      href="https://github.com/greynolds/leiningen-doc">github project</xref>.
    </p>
    <p>
      Please use the <xref format="html"
      href="https://github.com/greynolds/leiningen-doc/issues">Issues
      Tracker</xref> to register bugs, corrections, enhancement
      requests, etc.  Alternatively, you can clone the repository and
      edit the text directly.  If you do please credit yourself in the
      metadata.
    </p>

    <section>
      <title>Intellectual property</title>
      <p>
	This work is licensed under the Creative Commons
	Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. To
	view a copy of this license, visit
	http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/ or send a
	letter to Creative Commons, 171 Second Street, Suite 300, San
	Francisco, California, 94105, USA.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>DITA</title>
      <p>
	<xref format="html"
	href="http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=dita">DITA</xref>
	(Darwin Information Typing Architecture) is an <xref
	format="html"
	href="http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=dita">OASIS
	Standard</xref> for writing, managing, and publishing
	information.  It supports "topic-based" authoring.
      </p>
      <p>
	The <xref format="html"
	href="http://dita.xml.org/book/dita-wiki-knowledgebase">DITA
	Wiki Knowledgebase</xref> contains lots of information on
	DITA, from introductions and overviews to detailed
	documentation.
      </p>

      <p>
	Another good overview is <xref format="html"
	href="http://www.xmlmind.com/tutorials/DITA/index.html">DITA
	for the Impatient</xref> from <xref format="html"
	href="http://www.xmlmind.com/tutorials/DITA/">XMLMind</xref>.
      </p>
      <p>
	The <xref format="html"
	href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/langspec/ditaref-type.html">DITA
	Language Specification</xref> documents the elements and
	atributes of the DITA Schema.
      </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Tools</title>
      <p>
	There are two open source DITA transformation tools available:
	<ul>
	  <li>
	    <xref format="html"
		  href="http://dita-ot.sourceforge.net/">DITA Open
	    Toolkit</xref>
	  </li>
	  <li>
	    <xref format="html"
		  href="http://www.xmlmind.com/ditac/">XMLMind DITA
	    Converter</xref>
	  </li>
	</ul>
      </p>

    </section>
  </body>

  <related-links>
    <!-- <link href="embed2.dita"> -->
    <!--   <linktext/> -->
    <!-- </link> -->
  </related-links>
</topic>
