<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="backend">
  <title>Dependency Trees</title>

  <body>
    <p>
      How does Leiningen figure out the dependency tree?  How does it manage to fetch al l the required jars?  How does it manage to add stuff to the classpath?

      <dl>
	<dlentry>
	<dt><xref scope="external"
		  href="https://github.com/cemerick/pomegranate">Pomegranate</xref>
	</dt>
	<dd>Clojure wrapper for Aether.  Aether is what handles
	dependency resolution (i.e. figuring out the transitive
	dependency graph).</dd>
	</dlentry>

	<dlentry>
	<dt><xref scope="external"
		  href="http://www.eclipse.org/aether/">Aether</xref>
	</dt>
	<dd><q>Aether is a library for working with artifact
	repositories. Aether deals with the specification of local
	repository, remote repository, developer workspaces, artifact
	transports, and artifact resolution.</q> For details on how
	Aether determines the dependency graph see <xref
	scope="external"
	href="http://wiki.eclipse.org/Aether/Transitive_Dependency_Resolution">Aether/Transitive
	Dependency Resolution</xref> and <xref scope="external"
	href="http://wiki.eclipse.org/Aether/Dependency_Graph">Aether/Dependency
	Graph</xref>.</dd>
	</dlentry>

	<dlentry>
	  <dt><xref scope="external"
		    href="https://github.com/flatland/classlojure">Classlojure</xref>
	  </dt>
	  <dd><q>classlojure lets you easily create a classloader with
	  an alternate classpath and evaluate clojure forms in
	  it. This classloader can even use a different version of
	  clojure than your primary classloader.</q>
	  </dd>
	</dlentry>
	<dlentry>
	  <dt>
	    <xref scope="external"
		  href="https://github.com/Raynes/bultitude">Bultitude</xref>
	  </dt>
	  <dd>
	    <q>Bultitude is a library for finding namespaces on the classpath.</q>
	  </dd>
	</dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>

    <note>
      How much of all this does the user really need to know?
    </note>
  </body>
</topic>
