<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="parmsnopts">
  <title>Parameters and Options</title>

  <body>
    <p>
      Terminology: in keeping with standard Unix usage, we reserve the
      term <i>option</i> for bits of state that control the behavior
      of software.  For example, many command line tools have a
      <q>verbose</q> option that controls how much information the
      tool dumps the stdout/stderr as it executes.
    </p>

    <p>
      In order to specify (or set) an option, the user must supply the
      appropriate <i>parameter</i> as part of the command.
      Alternatively, software commonly accepts parameters stored in
      environment variables.  Yet a third alternative is to accept
      parameters specified in a configuration file.
    </p>

    <p>
      In practice the distinction between options and parameters in
      this sense is overlooked or not even noticed in the first place,
      with no ill effect.  But for the sake of clarity, it is useful
      to respect the distinction when it comes to Leiningen.  There
      are two reasons for this.
    </p>

    <p>
      First, Leiningen project files may contain parameters for any
      number of programs, each of which support different options.  So
      although it makes sense to think of the project map as a kind of
      configuration file, it is not like the configuration files
      specific to particular software packages.  For example, Jetty
      depends heavily on configuration files that are specific to
      Jetty; there is no reason to put anything in a Jetty
      configuration file that Jetty would not understand.  A Leiningen
      project map, by contrast, ordinarily will contain parameters for
      several different software components.
    </p>

    <p>
      Second, Leiningen places no constraints on the representation of
      any option.  Since Leiningen is extensible via plugins, the most
      Leiningen can do is provide a means of associating a value with
      a key - a Clojure map.  It then becomes the responsibility of
      the plugin to correctly interpret the key-value pair (which we
      call a <i>parameter</i>).  This means in particular that a
      plugin designer can choose key and value names for configuration
      parameters that are completely different than their
      corresponding software options.
    </p>

    <p>
      A simple example: the <cmdname>java</cmdname> command
      understands a <q>max heap size</q> option, whose command line
      parameter is <cmdname>-Xmx&lt;size></cmdname>.  Leiningen does
      not directly support this as a configuration parameter, however;
      instead it has a <cmdname>:jvm-opts</cmdname> parameter, whose
      value can be anything <cmdname>java</cmdname> understands to be
      an option-setting parameter.  So Leiningen must <i>construct</i>
      the appropriate command line from the project map parameters.
      Furthermore, it is possible to choose completely different
      names; for example, Leiningen could have used <q>semantic</q>
      parameters; in this example, it could have supported a
      <cmdname>:jvm-max-heap</cmdname> parameter that takes a number
      in MB as a value; or, it could have used a nested map,
      e.g. <cmdname>:jvm-opts {:heap {:max 512 :min 64}}</cmdname>.
    </p>

    <p>
      So for the sake of clarity we will always refer to the key-value
      pairs in the project map as <i>parameters</i>, and refer to the
      software state controlled by such parameter
      A given parameter is not necessarily specific to a particular
      software component, whereas options are always
      software-specific.
    </p>

    <section>
      <title></title>
      <p>
    </p>
    </section>

  </body>

  <related-links>
    <!-- <link href="foo.dita"> -->
    <!--   <linktext/> -->
    <!-- </link> -->
  </related-links>
</topic>
